Having gained confidence working with both C code and Python through my studies in Harvard's CS50 and CS50P courses. I have now decided to develop my application primarily with Python. This decision was based on the combination of practicality, my program's user base, security considerations, and support in the form of documentation, which will be essential for me to be able to learn.
​
Python's libraries support core functionality for my project. OAuth authentication, api communication, and integration of my own ai model are all vital components for my application. Working with these technologies at a higher level is manageable for me at this point in my career. Allowing me to understand the underlying concepts clearly, to then focus on integrating these various components safely into my application.
Researching various ways to produce UI design. I found Python's compatibility with PySide6 and Qt Designer offered me, as a computer animation graduate, a visual way to build a desktop UI design from scratch. Avoiding a critical disconnect between code and visual output encountered in the use of lower-level languages.
​
While it's completely possible for me to reproduce all of this functionality and output using c. Doing so would significantly increase the amount of research, work, and planning it would take to get this project off the ground.
Having previously handled memory management, network requests, and parsing json structures within my previous project in a C code HTTP server. I’m well aware that the easily made errors in any of these areas could cause critical errors or security vulnerabilities within both development and within the business when deployed. The additional time it would take in low level implementation and testing to ensure any errors are dealt with would be substantial and unrealistic within my timescope.
​
Performance wise, C would undoubtedly be superior. Memory efficiency and faster processing times can’t be compared to an object-oriented programming language.
However, because of the nature of this program I am designing, high optimisation may not yield meaningful real world benefits at this scale.
The project is simplistic in the fact it will be single user in operation. With a very low data throughput. Meaning, while optimisation with C is possible, it would not provide a significant impact on performance at this scale. The limiting factor instead would be the speed of the user's interaction with the UI, rather than task processing speeds.
In conclusion, I believe that Python is more than sufficient. Considering development speed, security, testing, and library support, Python is a far more efficient choice for achieving the objectives of my application at this scale.
